web/web_pdd.md, before:

# Web Visualization Product Definition Document (PDD)

## 1. Overview

This document outlines the requirements for a web-based visualization of the `hill_descent` genetic algorithm simulation. The goal is to provide a real-time graphical representation of the world, its regions, and the organisms within it, running in a standard web browser. The visualization will be built using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with the D3.js library for rendering SVG elements.

The simulation itself will run as a WebAssembly (WASM) module, communicating with the JavaScript front-end to provide the necessary data for rendering at each step (round) of the simulation.

## 2. Core Requirements

### 2.1. Simulation Context

*   The simulation will be configured to use a fitness function with two input parameters and one output value. This corresponds to a 2-dimensional world where the "height" or "fitness" is the output.
*   The visualization will update after each round of the simulation completes.
*   A delay of approximately 1 second will be introduced between each update to allow for clear observation of the simulation's progress.

### 2.2. Visualization Canvas

*   An SVG element will serve as the main canvas for the visualization.
*   The SVG canvas size should be responsive or large enough to comfortably display the entire world, which is defined by the bounds of the two input parameters.

### 2.3. World and Region Rendering

*   The world is a 2D plane defined by the global bounds of the two non-system parameters.
*   The background of the world will be a neutral color.
*   **Regions:**
    *   Each defined region will be rendered as an SVG `<rect>` (square/rectangle) on the world plane.
    *   The position and size of the rectangle will correspond to the region's boundaries.
    *   The fill color of the rectangle will represent the region's current minimum known height (score), mapped to a color scale.
*   **Color Scale:**
    *   A continuous color scale from blue (representing the global minimum score observed) through green to red (global maximum score observed) will be used.
    *   This scale will be used to color the region rectangles.
*   **Interactivity:**
    *   When a user hovers the mouse over a region rectangle, a tooltip or pop-up should appear, displaying the region's boundaries (e.g., "x: [0.5, 1.0], y: [0.0, 0.5]").

### 2.4. Organism Rendering

*   **Representation:** Each organism will be rendered as a black SVG `<circle>` (dot) on the world plane.
*   **Position:** The organism's position will be determined by its two non-system parameter values.
*   **Interactivity:**
    *   When a user hovers the mouse over an organism's circle, a tooltip or pop-up should appear, displaying its non-system parameters and its current age.

## 3. Technical Implementation Details

### 3.1. Technology Stack

*   **Frontend:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript
*   **JS Libraries:** D3.js (for SVG manipulation, data binding, and scales)
*   **Backend:** Rust compiled to WebAssembly (WASM)

### 3.2. Data Interface (WASM to JS)

The WASM module must expose a function that can be called from JavaScript to retrieve the state of the world after each round. This function should return a data structure (e.g., a JSON string or a JavaScript object) with the following information:

```json
{
  "world_bounds": {
    "x": [0.0, 100.0], // Min/Max for parameter 1
    "y": [0.0, 100.0]  // Min/Max for parameter 2
  },
  "score_range": {
    "min": -50.0,       // Global minimum score seen so far
    "max": 150.0        // Global maximum score seen so far
  },
  "regions": [
    {
      "id": 0,
      "bounds": {
        "x": [0.0, 10.0],
        "y": [0.0, 10.0]
      },
      "min_score": 12.5
    }
    // ... other regions
  ],
  "organisms": [
    {
      "id": 0,
      "params": {
        "x": 5.2,
        "y": 8.1
      },
      "age": 15
    }
    // ... other organisms
  ]
}
```

### 3.3. Control Flow

1.  **Initialization:** The JavaScript code initializes the D3.js visualization, sets up the SVG canvas, and defines the scales based on initial data from the WASM module.
2.  **Simulation Loop (JS):**
    a. Call the WASM function to run the next simulation round.
    b. Call the WASM function to get the updated world state.
    c. Use D3.js to update the visualization (regions and organisms) based on the new data. This involves a data join (`.data()`, `.join()`, `.enter()`, `.exit()`) to correctly add, update, and remove SVG elements.
    d. Wait for 1 second.
    e. Repeat.

## 4. Potential Enhancements (Future Work)

*   A continuous heatmap for the entire world background.
*   Controls to pause, resume, and restart the simulation.
*   Input fields to change simulation parameters on the fly.
*   Charts to show population size and average fitness over time.

Commit message:

feat(vis): Enhance and debug carrying capacity display
Improved visualization layout and styling. Confirmed carrying capacity correctly drops to zero for empty regions, which is the intended simulation behavior. Removed all temporary debugging code.

web/web_pdd.md, after:

# Web Visualization Product Definition Document (PDD)

## Visualization Requirements

- The visualization should make effective use of the available screen space.
- Each distinct region should be clearly demarcated with a border.
- The carrying capacity of each region should be displayed as text within that region.

## 1. Overview

This document outlines the requirements for a web-based visualization of the `hill_descent` genetic algorithm simulation. The goal is to provide a real-time graphical representation of the world, its regions, and the organisms within it, running in a standard web browser. The visualization will be built using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, with the D3.js library for rendering SVG elements.

The simulation itself will run as a WebAssembly (WASM) module, communicating with the JavaScript front-end to provide the necessary data for rendering at each step (round) of the simulation.

## 2. Core Requirements

### 2.1. Simulation Context

*   The simulation will be configured to use a fitness function with two input parameters and one output value. This corresponds to a 2-dimensional world where the "height" or "fitness" is the output.
*   The visualization will update after each round of the simulation completes.
*   A delay of approximately 1 second will be introduced between each update to allow for clear observation of the simulation's progress.

### 2.2. Visualization Canvas

*   An SVG element will serve as the main canvas for the visualization.
*   The SVG canvas size should be responsive or large enough to comfortably display the entire world, which is defined by the bounds of the two input parameters.

### 2.3. World and Region Rendering

*   The world is a 2D plane defined by the global bounds of the two non-system parameters.
*   The background of the world will be a neutral color.
*   **Regions:**
    *   Each defined region will be rendered as an SVG `<rect>` (square/rectangle) on the world plane.
    *   The position and size of the rectangle will correspond to the region's boundaries.
    *   The fill color of the rectangle will represent the region's current minimum known height (score), mapped to a color scale.
*   **Color Scale:**
    *   A continuous color scale from blue (representing the global minimum score observed) through green to red (global maximum score observed) will be used.
    *   This scale will be used to color the region rectangles.
*   **Interactivity:**
    *   When a user hovers the mouse over a region rectangle, a tooltip or pop-up should appear, displaying the region's boundaries (e.g., "x: [0.5, 1.0], y: [0.0, 0.5]").

### 2.4. Organism Rendering

*   **Representation:** Each organism will be rendered as a black SVG `<circle>` (dot) on the world plane.
*   **Position:** The organism's position will be determined by its two non-system parameter values.
*   **Interactivity:**
    *   When a user hovers the mouse over an organism's circle, a tooltip or pop-up should appear, displaying its non-system parameters and its current age.

## 3. Technical Implementation Details

### 3.1. Technology Stack

*   **Frontend:** HTML, CSS, JavaScript
*   **JS Libraries:** D3.js (for SVG manipulation, data binding, and scales)
*   **Backend:** Rust compiled to WebAssembly (WASM)

### 3.2. Data Interface (WASM to JS)

The WASM module must expose a function that can be called from JavaScript to retrieve the state of the world after each round. This function should return a data structure (e.g., a JSON string or a JavaScript object) with the following information:

```json
{
  "world_bounds": {
    "x": [0.0, 100.0], // Min/Max for parameter 1
    "y": [0.0, 100.0]  // Min/Max for parameter 2
  },
  "score_range": {
    "min": -50.0,       // Global minimum score seen so far
    "max": 150.0        // Global maximum score seen so far
  },
  "regions": [
    {
      "id": 0,
      "bounds": {
        "x": [0.0, 10.0],
        "y": [0.0, 10.0]
      },
      "min_score": 12.5
    }
    // ... other regions
  ],
  "organisms": [
    {
      "id": 0,
      "params": {
        "x": 5.2,
        "y": 8.1
      },
      "age": 15
    }
    // ... other organisms
  ]
}
```

### 3.3. Control Flow

1.  **Initialization:** The JavaScript code initializes the D3.js visualization, sets up the SVG canvas, and defines the scales based on initial data from the WASM module.
2.  **Simulation Loop (JS):**
    a. Call the WASM function to run the next simulation round.
    b. Call the WASM function to get the updated world state.
    c. Use D3.js to update the visualization (regions and organisms) based on the new data. This involves a data join (`.data()`, `.join()`, `.enter()`, `.exit()`) to correctly add, update, and remove SVG elements.
    d. Wait for 1 second.
    e. Repeat.

## 4. Potential Enhancements (Future Work)

*   A continuous heatmap for the entire world background.
*   Controls to pause, resume, and restart the simulation.
*   Input fields to change simulation parameters on the fly.
*   Charts to show population size and average fitness over time.
